## Database functions

The description of all data is organized by experiment, datatype and acquition computer. For access via the gui check out the main manual. In these section mainly the matlab functions interacting with the data are described. For detailed descriptions of input and output arguments, check the help in Matlab. 

To **load an experiment database**, use

    [db,filename] = load_testdb(datatype, hostname);

where `datatype` is one of the 4 main datatypes with different record structures:
* 'ec' - electrophysiology
* 'tp' - two-photon and regular microscopy 
* 'wc' - webcam data
* 'oi' - intrinsic signal, flavoprotein and gcamp wide field imaging

and `hostname` is one of the acquistion computers, e.g. jander, daneel or wall-e. 
Loading a database with `load_testdb` does not lock a database, and ignores an existing file lock.

###Generic database functions

To **save a database**, use

    [filename,lockfile] = save_db(db, filename, suggest, lockfile)

To **open a database**, use

    [db,filename,perm,lockfile] = open_db( filename, loadpath, filter)

This loads the database into `db` but also creates a lock-file to indicate that the database is opened.

To **find records** by selection, use

    ind = find_record(db,crit)    



### Database administration

Outside the normal operation of the InVivoTools is changing the database structures. Future changes in setups or requirements, however, may make it necessary to add, shuffle or remove fields. This can all be done by opening the database administration control by

    admin_db

at the Matlab prompt. This will open the window below.











