### Fields

#### name
Name of the record, can be used for filtering. With this in mind, keep the use of non-alphanumeric characters to a minimum. Space are allowed. Comma’s are discouraged. Consistency and explicitness helps to keep track of the records.

#### groups
a comma-separated list of groups, either matching the group field in the group databases, or as the start of filter (followed by an asterix) for the mouse field in the mouse database.  Simple group arithmetic with +,-,/ is also possible, e.g ‘B6 control 1 month-B6 MD 7d from p28’. Note that you can also select a single mouse, by just specifying the mouse number. 

#### measures
a comma-separated lists of measures, either matching the measure field in the measure database, or of the form datatype:stimtype:measure, e.g. oi:od:odi, or datatype:measure, e.g. ec:snr. Arithmetic with scalars is also possible, by using +,-,*,/ and ^ (power). Use of brackets, like (oi:od:odi+1)/2 is also supported. Comparisons with ‘&lt;’, ‘&gt;’, ‘=’ (equality), ‘!’ (inequality) will evaluate to 0 or 1.  Logical operators are ‘&’ for AND and ‘|’ for OR. Some arithmetic with two measures should also work, but it is not heavily test. The functions ‘mean’ and ‘std’ can be called as e.g. ‘mean(weight)’.

  

Formulas in measures can be evaluated for the means per the group specified in the ‘value_per’ field in the graph_db record, or for every data point separately before taking the group mean. Two specify the requested behavior, you need to use the square brackets [ and ]. For example, when 

    measures = tp:mito_close*given(tp:bouton)
    value_per = mouse

first the mean tp:mito_close and tp:bouton are computed for each mouse. Then for each mouse the function `given` is applied to the mean tp:bouton, and then the outcome is multiplied with the mean of tp:mito_close. Most often, this is not the behavior you want. What you usually would like is:

    measures = tp:[mito_close*given(bouton)]
    value_per = mouse

Here, ‘tp:’ is still needed to specify the database to use. In this formulation, for each datapoint, the function given is applied to the bouton value and this is multiplied with mito_close. Of these values, the averages per mouse (or neurite or stack) are computed. 

If you have multiple measure, you need to write the brackets for each entry, e.g.

    tp:[given(gfp)*shaft],tp:[given(gfp)*spine]

Note that for the optical imaging values this second formulation is not yet implemented.

#### criteria
provides another way of defining groups. The criteria are evaluated directly as matlab code in the function get_measure_from_record. A value is included in the group if criteria evaluates to true. The record is available in the workspave as record, and the current ROI or cell measures are available as measures. An example criteria is 'measures.timepoint&gt;3 && measures.timepoint&lt;12'.

#### style
determines graph style. Can be ‘bar’,’box’ (bar graph with median instead of mean), ‘xy’, ‘hist’ (histogram), ‘cumul’ (cumulative histogram), ‘rose’, ‘image’, 'pie' and ‘surf’.

#### test

Statistical test to use. Allowed values are ‘ttest’ (identical to ‘ttest2’), ‘paired_ttest’,’chi2’, ‘kruskal-wallis’,’kruskal_wallis’ and ‘none’.

#### showpoints

Determines whether and how to show individual data points. 0 shows no points, 1 shows all points, 2 shows all x, but only mean of y values. The last option is useful for plotting y for a fixed range of x, like contrasts.

#### color

An Nx3 array with RGB values (between 0 and 1) for each group, i.e. [1 0 0; 0 1 0;0 0 1] gives three groups the colors red, green and blue.

#### prefax

Either a 1x2 vector with the minimum and maximum y-limits, like [-1 1], or a 1x4 vector with x- and y-limits, [minx maxx miny maxy]

#### spaced

Option primary useful for bar graph. 0 shows all points within a bar on a single x-position. 1 and 2 space them out over the width of the bar. 1 does this with NaN values removed, 2 inserts empty spaces for NaN values.

#### grouplabels

Comma-separated list of group labels, allows some matlab tex interpretations, like \alpha or monocular\newlinedeprivation.

#### measurelabels

Comma-separated list of measure labels, allows some matlab tex interpretations, like \alpha,  C_{50},  m^2. More complicated texts can be done via the extra_code option using text and latex interpreter (see help tex).

#### extra_options

* bins Number of bins for (cumulative) histogram and rose plot. Default 16.
* comment Requires comment somewhere in the comment field, for multiple necessary matches, use ‘ comment {one,two}
* celltype Select cell type, e.g. 'all', 'mu', 'su'.
* depth Selects only record at specified depth.
* dbname Filename of test database to use. 
* errorbars Word, or a semi-colon separated cell list of 'sem', 'none'.
* errorbars_sides Word or semi-colon separated cell list of 'both', 'away'.
* errorbars_tick Error bar width as fraction of axis width.
* eyes Select record by filtering 'eye=*eyes*', e.g. 'none', 'both','contra','ipsi'.
* fit Type of fit to apply to the data, 'proportional', 'linear', 'exponential', 'powerlaw', 'spline', 'thresholdlinear', 'nakarushton'. If fit ends in 'together', then a single fit will be used for all data points.
* group_by Group date by ‘group’ or ‘measure’.
* layer[deprecated], either ‘supergranular’, ‘granular’ or ‘subgranular’ above 450,between 350 and 550, and below 550 microns.
* legnd Semi-colon separated cell list of strings, e.g. {‘wild type’;’transgenic’,’location’,’northeastoutside’}, can also be just ‘on’
* limit Semi-colon separated cell list of variable, range pairs, e.g. {‘rate_max’,[2 inf]} or {‘labels’,{‘CR’;’VIP’}}. This is deprecated. Use the list-field instead.
* linestyles Word or semi-colon separated cell list of styles, like plot, e.g. ‘-k’, ‘:r’
* markers Word or semi-colon separated cell list of 'none', 'open_triangle', 'closed_triangle', 'open_circle' or 'closed_circle' 
* markersize Size in points. Default is 12.
* min_n Select only groups with at least min_n datapoints.
* nobars Hides bars in bar plot
* nocomment Does not want nocomment appear in the test records’ comment, e.g. nocomment, {bad,worse} excludes all records with either ‘bad’ or ‘worse’ in the comment field.
* range_limit Select only values for which the variable values lies between range_limit(1) and range_limit(2) (borders included).
* reliable 1 (default) to use only reliable records, 0 to use all. 
* rose_style ‘relative’ for normalization
* rotate_xticklabels Angle in degrees to rotate XTicklabels.
* save_option 1 (default) to save, 0 to not save.
* slidingwindow apply a sliding window with the argument as size
* sort_y‘asc’ or ‘desc’ for ascending or descending sort of y
* tail Tail to use for significance tests, i.e. ‘both’, ‘right’ or ‘left’. 
* variable Only use test for which variable was analysed.
* verbose 1 to see extra information or graphs. 0 for not (default).
* xlab X-axis label string.
* xticklabels XTick labels, 1xN vector.
* ylab Y-axis label string.

#### extra_code

matlab code that will be evaluated directly after creating the figure, e.g. set(gca,’xscale’,’log’); or axis equal or set(h.fit(1),'color',[0 0 0]) or use keyboard to see which variables are available. 

#### filename

name of save file. If left empty, one will be created from name (with removal of all coding characters) and returned to this field.

#### author

name or initials of the person who created the graph record

#### created

date and time of creation of the record

#### modified

data and time of last successful computation of the graph

#### path

where to save the figure. If left open, it will go to the current folder.

#### value_per

how to group values before taking the mean, options are ‘group’,‘measurement’, ‘mouse’, ‘test’, ‘stack’,‘neurite’. Two other options are 'testsum' and 'stacksum' which compute the sum rather than the mean over all channels, cells or ROIs in a testrecord or a stackrecord. See the section on ‘measures’ to see how functions are evaluated.

#### signif_y

Determine if and where to calculate and plot significances. A single 0 will turn off significance testing. Otherwise a Nx2 list, with the comparison number (i.e. group 1 vs 2 is 1, group 1 vs 3 is 3, group 2 vs 3 is 3 for a 3-group comparison) in the first column, and the y-position in the second column. NaN for a y-position means do not calculate. 

#### ylab

Y-axs label string.

#### add2graph

The name of another graph in the database to which to add the current graph.

#### limit

Comma-separated list of range pairs, e.g. ‘rate_max{1},[2 inf],labels,{‘CR’,’VIP’},timepoint,{1,3,5}’. This replaced the extra_option limit.